TypeScript (#1819)
enkidevs/curriculum: typescript/introduction/tsc-data-types-ii/tsc-object-type-comparison.md

---
author: kapnobatai136

type: normal

category: must-know

aspects:
  - introduction

---

# `Object` vs `object` vs `{}`

---
## Content

TypeScript has 3 ways to represent an object with slightly different behaviors.

> Since almost everything in JavaScript is an object[1], the `Object` type can be used to represent any type that is considered to contain a value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since any defined value in JavaScript is an object[1], the `Object` type can be used to represent any type that is considered to contain a value:
```

```ts
let num: Object = 3;
let str: Object = 'enki';
let arr: Object = [1, 2, 3];
// ...
// only null and undefined give an error
let n: Object = null; // error
let u: Object = undefined; // error
```

> This often leads to confusion. Usually by "object" we only mean collections of values, whether it be maps, sets, arrays, etc or plain objects, but not primitive values such as numbers or strings.

Reviewer: Add a footnote here that lists all primitive values;

```
The following types are considered to be primitive types in JavaScript:

- `string`
- `boolean`
- `number`
- `bigint`
- `symbol`
- `null`
- `undefined`
```

This is where the `object` type comes into play.

```ts
let arr: object = [1, 2, 3];
let obj: object = { enki: true };
let map: object = new Map([["enki", "cool"]])
// ...
// primitive values give an error
let str: object = 'enki'; // error
let num: object = 3; // error
let n: object = null; // error
let u: object = undefined; // error
```

The type `{}` is used to represent an empty JavaScript object.

> ```ts
> const empty: {} = {};
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```ts
const empty: {} = {};
const notEmpty: {} = { name: 'enki' }; // error
```
````

> The type `{}` is used to represent an empty JavaScript object.
> 
> ```ts
> const empty: {} = {};
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
The type `{}` is used to represent a JavaScript object with a specific shape.

```ts
let empty: {} = {}

const Enki: {
  job: string,
  isFun: boolean,
} = { job: "teach", isFun: true };
```

Assigning values that aren't part of the shape will cause errors:

```ts
empty.name = 'oops'; // Property 'name' does not exist on type '{}'
Enki.age = 5; // Property 'age' does not exist on type '{ job: string; isFun: boolean; }'
```
````

---
## Practice

Which statement will throw an error?

```ts

> const a: Object = { enki: true };
> 
> const b: object = { enki: true };
> 
> const c: {} = { enki: true };

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const a: Object = { enki: 'fun' };

const b: object = { enki: 'fun' };

const c: { enki: string } = { enki: 'fun' };
```

> ```ts
> const a: Object = { enki: true };
> 
> const b: object = { enki: true };
> 
> const c: {} = { enki: true };
> ```
> 
> ???
> 
> * b
> * a
> * c
> * d

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```ts
const a: Object = { enki: 'fun' };

const b: object = { enki: 'fun' };

const c: { enki: string } = { enki: 'fun' };
```

???

* none of them
* b
* a
* c
````

---
## Revision

Which statement will throw an error?

```ts
const a: Object = 5;

const b: object = 5;

const c: object = { enki: true };

const d: Object = { enki: true };
```

???

* b
* a
* c
* d

---
## Footnotes

[1:Objects]

> All values besides `null` and `undefined` are a form of object in JavaScript. A quick test to verify if something is an object is to try and access a property on it and seeing if it errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All values besides `null` and `undefined` are a form of object in JavaScript. A quick test to verify if something is an object is to try and access a property on it and see if it errors.
```

---
author: kapnobatai136

type: normal

category: must-know

aspects:
  - introduction

---

# `Object` vs `object` vs `{}`

---
## Content

TypeScript has 3 ways to represent an object with slightly different behaviors.

Since any defined value in JavaScript is an object[1], the `Object` type can be used to represent any type that is considered to contain a value:

```ts
let num: Object = 3;
let str: Object = 'enki';
let arr: Object = [1, 2, 3];
// ...
// only null and undefined give an error
let n: Object = null; // error
let u: Object = undefined; // error
```

This often leads to confusion. Usually by "object" we only mean collections of values (e.g. maps, sets, arrays, plain objects), but not primitive values[2] (e.g. numbers or strings).

This is where the `object` type comes into play.

```ts
let arr: object = [1, 2, 3];
let obj: object = { enki: true };
let map: object = new Map([["enki", "cool"]])
// ...
// primitive values give an error
let str: object = 'enki'; // error
let num: object = 3; // error
let n: object = null; // error
let u: object = undefined; // error
```

> The type `{}` is used to represent a JavaScript object with a specific shape.

Reviewer 2: I'd personally split this into 2 insights:
- first insight about `{}` and how to define standard objects with specific shapes; this is the one mostly used in TS I think
- 2nd insight about `object` and `Object` where we present them like special types similar to `never` `any` etc

Reviewer 2: this will allow us to add more granual practice/testing opportunites

```ts
let empty: {} = {};

const Enki: {
  job: string,
  isFun: boolean,
} = { job: "teach", isFun: true };
```

Assigning values that aren't part of the shape will cause errors:

```ts
empty.name = 'oops'; // Property 'name' does not exist on type '{}'
Enki.age = 5; // Property 'age' does not exist on type '{ job: string; isFun: boolean; }'
```

---
## Practice

Which statement will throw an error?

```ts
const a: Object = { enki: 'fun' };

const b: object = { enki: 'fun' };

const c: { enki: string } = { enki: 'fun' };
```

???

> * none of them

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* None of them
```
